clyog8eie000009l32axb0pci.md, before:

---
title: "Using AWS S3 without hosting your .Net app on AWS"
datePublished: Tue Jul 16 2024 13:28:19 GMT+0000 (Coordinated Universal Time)
cuid: clyog8eie000009l32axb0pci
slug: using-aws-s3-without-hosting-your-net-app-on-aws
cover: https://cdn.hashnode.com/res/hashnode/image/upload/v1721136370463/76ee0f6a-f6aa-4685-9e91-36f0626cc65d.jpeg
tags: aws, net, aws-s3

---

First, you have to add libraries to your project. [AWSSDK.S3](https://www.nuget.org/packages/AWSSDK.S3) and [AWSSDK.Extensions.NETCore.Setup](https://www.nuget.org/packages/AWSSDK.Extensions.NETCore.Setup).

```bash
dotnet add package AWSSDK.S3
dotnet add AWSSDK.Extensions.NETCore.Setup
```

## Add AwsOptions

To add AWS configuration, we will use an option pattern. You have to create a non-abstract class with the public constructor.

```csharp
public class AwsOptions {
    public const string SectionName = "AWS";
    public string BucketName { get; set; } = string.Empty;
    public string Environment { get; set; } = string.Empty;
    public string AccessKey { get; set; } = string.Empty;
    public string SecretKey { get; set; } = string.Empty;
}
```

Then, go to your appsettings file and add a section for AWS. It's essential to keep the same names of properties.

```json
"AWS": {
    "BucketName": "your_bucket_name",
    "Environment": "your_environment",
    "AccessKey": "<secret>",
    "SecretKey": "<secret>"
  }
```

Finally, go to the Program.cs and add options and services.

```csharp
var options = builder.Configuration.GetSection(AwsOptions.SectionName).Get<AwsOptions>();
ArgumentNullException.ThrowIfNull(options);
var awsOptions = builder.Configuration.GetAWSOptions();
awsOptions.Credentials = new BasicAWSCredentials(options.AccessKey, options.SecretKey);
// Choose your region from AWS
awsOptions.Region = RegionEndpoint.EUNorth1;
builder.Services.AddDefaultAWSOptions(awsOptions);
builder.Services.AddAWSService<IAmazonS3>();
```

## Get an Access and a Secret Key from AWS S3

**User creation**

In AWS go to IAM.

![](https://cdn.hashnode.com/res/hashnode/image/upload/v1719479745976/d9c3e321-7fc2-4d72-8f81-43207d9a3f6e.png align="center")

Choose "Users" from "Access management".

![](https://cdn.hashnode.com/res/hashnode/image/upload/v1719479835811/c53aea85-6c8f-4238-bfd4-94e0ab4cf52a.png align="center")

Click "Create user".

![](https://cdn.hashnode.com/res/hashnode/image/upload/v1719479928513/6152712f-75c7-4266-ae0d-598dd3f40199.png align="center")

Input the name and click "Next".

![](https://cdn.hashnode.com/res/hashnode/image/upload/v1719479982208/c552aa51-5c44-4b27-881a-a33a59416c8c.png align="center")

Set permissions. Amazon recommends using groups. Click "Create group".

![](https://cdn.hashnode.com/res/hashnode/image/upload/v1719480218473/d34d2423-944a-498e-9cb2-d4aeebcbc06b.png align="center")

Search for policy for S3 and choose what you need. Name the user group and click "Create user group".

![](https://cdn.hashnode.com/res/hashnode/image/upload/v1719480394078/426857bc-3afb-400f-9c7a-9eb85245b321.png align="center")

After group creation, choose it from the table and click "Next".

![](https://cdn.hashnode.com/res/hashnode/image/upload/v1719480572123/2e5938a4-35c0-45c8-bd06-190830e3d3f3.png align="center")

Then you will see the summary page. If everything is okay, click "Create user".

**Get keys**

Click your user name.

![](https://cdn.hashnode.com/res/hashnode/image/upload/v1719480866916/d4535f6f-13c0-4001-9bad-a587901d22f3.png align="center")

Navigate to "Security credentials".

![](https://cdn.hashnode.com/res/hashnode/image/upload/v1719480926666/f7f8ffd5-e1f7-4b3b-934c-778397a18b83.png align="center")

Go to "Access keys" and click "Create access key".

![](https://cdn.hashnode.com/res/hashnode/image/upload/v1719480983869/26ee537b-4195-46d3-8b92-9a9799bcfc2d.png align="center")

Choose a use case. For that case, you should choose "Application running outside AWS".

![](https://cdn.hashnode.com/res/hashnode/image/upload/v1719481076923/f3180061-b405-49fa-8915-3c774ecf4c56.png align="center")

Setting the description tag is optional. Click "Create access key".

![](https://cdn.hashnode.com/res/hashnode/image/upload/v1719481141079/7bc74db3-5830-49ec-b5af-0806d51af146.png align="center")

Save your access key and secret access key.

![](https://cdn.hashnode.com/res/hashnode/image/upload/v1719481321735/da62014f-818d-4397-8a57-e5daf2ef678f.png align="center")

## .Net Secret Manager

To keep your secrets locally, we will use [.Net Secret Manager](https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/aspnet/core/security/app-secrets?view=aspnetcore-8.0&tabs=windows#secret-manager). In your project directory use the console:

```bash
dotnet user-secrets init
dotnet user-secrets set "AWS:AccessKey" "YourAccessKey"
dotnet user-secrets set "AWS:SecretKey" "YourSecretKey"
```

## Protip

<div data-node-type="callout">
<div data-node-type="callout-emoji">💡</div>
<div data-node-type="callout-text">Remember to store your Access and Secret Key securely! For example, use Azure KeyVault, AWS Secrets Manager, or just environment variables in your hosting configuration.</div>
</div>

# Remarks

You can find the full code example [here](https://github.com/Katarzyna-Kadziolka/Pathmaker/tree/develop/api/Pathmaker)

If you have any questions you can ask me:  
[contact@chihuahuacoder.com](mailto:contact@chihuahuacoder.com)

Commit message:

update post: Using AWS S3 without hosting your .Net app on AWS

clyog8eie000009l32axb0pci.md, after:

---
title: "Using AWS S3 without hosting your .Net app on AWS"
datePublished: Tue Jul 16 2024 13:28:19 GMT+0000 (Coordinated Universal Time)
cuid: clyog8eie000009l32axb0pci
slug: using-aws-s3-without-hosting-your-net-app-on-aws
cover: https://cdn.hashnode.com/res/hashnode/image/upload/v1721136370463/76ee0f6a-f6aa-4685-9e91-36f0626cc65d.jpeg
tags: aws, net, aws-s3

---

Amazon S3, or Amazon Simple Storage Service, is an AWS cloud object storage service. It allows you to scale, secure, and manage your data efficiently. More than that, you can use it even if you host your application elsewhere (Azure, Google Cloud, etc.).

## Installation

First, you have to add libraries to your project. [AWSSDK.S3](https://www.nuget.org/packages/AWSSDK.S3) and [AWSSDK.Extensions.NETCore.Setup](https://www.nuget.org/packages/AWSSDK.Extensions.NETCore.Setup).

```bash
dotnet add package AWSSDK.S3
dotnet add AWSSDK.Extensions.NETCore.Setup
```

## Add AwsOptions

To add AWS configuration, we will use an option pattern. You have to create a non-abstract class with the public constructor.

```csharp
public class AwsOptions {
    public const string SectionName = "AWS";
    public string BucketName { get; set; } = string.Empty;
    public string Environment { get; set; } = string.Empty;
    public string AccessKey { get; set; } = string.Empty;
    public string SecretKey { get; set; } = string.Empty;
}
```

Then, go to your appsettings file and add a section for AWS. It's essential to keep the same names of properties.

```json
"AWS": {
    "BucketName": "your_bucket_name",
    "Environment": "your_environment",
    "AccessKey": "<secret>",
    "SecretKey": "<secret>"
  }
```

Finally, go to the Program.cs and add options and services.

```csharp
var options = builder.Configuration.GetSection(AwsOptions.SectionName).Get<AwsOptions>();
ArgumentNullException.ThrowIfNull(options);
var awsOptions = builder.Configuration.GetAWSOptions();
awsOptions.Credentials = new BasicAWSCredentials(options.AccessKey, options.SecretKey);
// Choose your region from AWS
awsOptions.Region = RegionEndpoint.EUNorth1;
builder.Services.AddDefaultAWSOptions(awsOptions);
builder.Services.AddAWSService<IAmazonS3>();
```

## Get an Access and a Secret Key from AWS S3

**User creation**

In AWS go to IAM.

![](https://cdn.hashnode.com/res/hashnode/image/upload/v1719479745976/d9c3e321-7fc2-4d72-8f81-43207d9a3f6e.png align="center")

Choose "Users" from "Access management".

![](https://cdn.hashnode.com/res/hashnode/image/upload/v1719479835811/c53aea85-6c8f-4238-bfd4-94e0ab4cf52a.png align="center")

Click "Create user".

![](https://cdn.hashnode.com/res/hashnode/image/upload/v1719479928513/6152712f-75c7-4266-ae0d-598dd3f40199.png align="center")

Input the name and click "Next".

![](https://cdn.hashnode.com/res/hashnode/image/upload/v1719479982208/c552aa51-5c44-4b27-881a-a33a59416c8c.png align="center")

Set permissions. Amazon recommends using groups. Click "Create group".

![](https://cdn.hashnode.com/res/hashnode/image/upload/v1719480218473/d34d2423-944a-498e-9cb2-d4aeebcbc06b.png align="center")

Search for policy for S3 and choose what you need. Name the user group and click "Create user group".

![](https://cdn.hashnode.com/res/hashnode/image/upload/v1719480394078/426857bc-3afb-400f-9c7a-9eb85245b321.png align="center")

After group creation, choose it from the table and click "Next".

![](https://cdn.hashnode.com/res/hashnode/image/upload/v1719480572123/2e5938a4-35c0-45c8-bd06-190830e3d3f3.png align="center")

Then you will see the summary page. If everything is okay, click "Create user".

**Get keys**

Click your user name.

![](https://cdn.hashnode.com/res/hashnode/image/upload/v1719480866916/d4535f6f-13c0-4001-9bad-a587901d22f3.png align="center")

Navigate to "Security credentials".

![](https://cdn.hashnode.com/res/hashnode/image/upload/v1719480926666/f7f8ffd5-e1f7-4b3b-934c-778397a18b83.png align="center")

Go to "Access keys" and click "Create access key".

![](https://cdn.hashnode.com/res/hashnode/image/upload/v1719480983869/26ee537b-4195-46d3-8b92-9a9799bcfc2d.png align="center")

Choose a use case. For that case, you should choose "Application running outside AWS".

![](https://cdn.hashnode.com/res/hashnode/image/upload/v1719481076923/f3180061-b405-49fa-8915-3c774ecf4c56.png align="center")

Setting the description tag is optional. Click "Create access key".

![](https://cdn.hashnode.com/res/hashnode/image/upload/v1719481141079/7bc74db3-5830-49ec-b5af-0806d51af146.png align="center")

Save your access key and secret access key.

![](https://cdn.hashnode.com/res/hashnode/image/upload/v1719481321735/da62014f-818d-4397-8a57-e5daf2ef678f.png align="center")

## .Net Secret Manager

To keep your secrets locally, we will use [.Net Secret Manager](https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/aspnet/core/security/app-secrets?view=aspnetcore-8.0&tabs=windows#secret-manager). In your project directory use the console:

```bash
dotnet user-secrets init
dotnet user-secrets set "AWS:AccessKey" "YourAccessKey"
dotnet user-secrets set "AWS:SecretKey" "YourSecretKey"
```

## Protip

<div data-node-type="callout">
<div data-node-type="callout-emoji">💡</div>
<div data-node-type="callout-text">Remember to store your Access and Secret Key securely! For example, use Azure KeyVault, AWS Secrets Manager, or just environment variables in your hosting configuration.</div>
</div>

# Remarks

You can find the full code example [here](https://github.com/Katarzyna-Kadziolka/Pathmaker/tree/develop/api/Pathmaker)

If you have any questions you can ask me:  
[contact@chihuahuacoder.com](mailto:contact@chihuahuacoder.com)
